# Healware_project
A Centralized Patient Monitoring And Decision Making System

GENERAL BACKGROUND
Continuous monitoring of the health parameters of patients is one of the major problems faced by the hospital authorities nowadays. Monitoring should be accurate, precise and carried out in real time. Current patient monitoring systems consist of single patient monitoring systems, where sensors are hardwired to a PC next to bed. Human intervention is also needed frequently. That is, a nurse will have to frequently monitor the patient’s health parameters. Employing a multiple patient monitoring system as oppose to a single patient monitoring system per patient, would be more cost and power efficient, and would allow the healthcare professionals to monitor many patients simultaneously without being in the same location. So a system that can overcome the above mentioned problems will really benefit developing countries like India. 

EFFECTIVE PATIENT MONITORING
The proposed system makes use of the idea of network technology with wireless applicability. Each patient is identified using an identifier makes it simpler for a doctor in identifying the patient’s current health status. The monitored parameters are processed and compared with the individual threshold limits of each patient and is networked to the patient monitoring system in doctors room. It is also networked to the monitoring system in nurse room. Hence in case of doctor’s absence since the monitored data being stored, an experienced nurse can convey the status of certain patient’s parameter to doctor’s mobile phone. Thus the necessary health aid can be provided and once the doctor arrives the results of concerned patients can be checked. In case of a large hospital where multiple patients need to be monitored simultaneously a separate monitoring system for each patient is inefficient. By employing a single system for multiple patients there will be a huge reduction in cost as well as power consumption. Data being recorded can be used for further research purposes if needed. It also provides flexibility to doctors.


SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
In future we can interconnect multiple networks from different hospitals which will help in efficient patient data transfer. There is also a provision for AI operated or remote controlled assisting robot to give a closer interactions/assistance with the isolated patients. Live video/audio communication between doctor and patient can be made.There is also a provision to give doctors the accessibility to check the medicine inventory to ensure weather prescribed medicine is in stock or not.

OBJECTIVE OF PROJECT
The main aim of the project is to eliminate the need of a medical attendees being in contact of the isolated patients in the hospital. In order to achieve it ,necessary health conditions of each patient is measured using specific sensors and the data’s are processed and is accessed from the nursing room. Thus medical staffs can monitor multiple patients simultaneously. A mobile application is also developed which give access to doctors about the real time health conditions of patients. The system automatically determines whether the patient is undergoing any emergency situation delivers emergency notification to the doctors and staffs.
